Before continuing on creating a second module,
I think it's worthwhile, we're now
spending a bit of time here to pause
and summarise some of the tools
and options available for modules.
Now these slides, as I mentioned a few times now,
are available for downloading.
Watch the bonus video, the very last video in the course,
if you want to download these slides,
because I'm not gonna go through them
in extended detail there,
we'll just cover them very quickly.
But the thing is, getting familiar with these will,
hopefully, cover any exam question
you'll see on tool support for modules,
so it's definitely worth your time,
spending some time understanding this.
All right, so looking firstly, we're going to go through
the various options for Java first, in the Java executable.
We've got list modules, and you can see two examples
of using that there for list modules,
using the list modules argument and the dash p as well.
Noting that, on the right-hand side,
if you don't specify module path
you get a listing of the modular JDK.
And specifying directories in the module path
you'll include visible modules in those directories,
either exploded directories or jar files.
Dash p or dash dash module dash path,
which is the same thing, two examples there
and obviously, as the argument says,
you need to find the module path
and you need to specify the module path
when executing a module jar.
Next we've got module dash m or dash dash module.
Two examples there and you need to specify
the module name also when executing a module jar.
We've got the dash dash dry dash run.
Now that option loads the main class but doesn't run it.
So this is used for testing module dependencies
and making sure that they're satisfied.
A successful result is no output
and we'll actually be doing that
in this video or the next one.
So you'll be able to see how that works.
The describe module command, dash d
or dash dash describe dash module.
This set gives you summary information
about a module including its path,
its dependencies, and its packages and resources.
Now moving on to javac now, we've got
the dash m or dash dash module.
When you are compiling using dash dash module
or dash m, you have to also specify
dash dash module dash source path
and you can see that in the examples.
Now we've got module path here or dash p
and you use that with javac when your code
has a dependency on existing modules.
The jar executable dash d or dash dash describe
dash module, it's similar to the java one
but includes the main-class as well.
Jdeps which you saw in the previous video,
with no options other than the jar,
gives you the summary information
about the jar file including module
dependencies if this is a modular jar.
And jdeps, we've got some other options here
I won't go through all of those there now
but you can see there's various options there
for listing dependencies, a reduced list of dependencies.
Printing module dependencies and also a check
which can be interesting and useful
to print the module descriptor etc.
All right, enough about that but again,
download the slides if you need to.
Let's go swing back now to IntelliJ
and what I want to do is create a second module.
Let's go ahead and do that using
the same thing that we did, same method.
Clicking on the project name at the top.
Right click new module, leaving the
defaults on that screen and for this one,
we're gonna call this one my second module.
Then we need to come down to my second module,
expand that, right click the source folder
inside that folder, specify Java Class.
We're gonna call this one mod two dot goodbye world.
And paste in the code like so.
All right so now that we've done that,
we've got two modules as you can see there now.
What we're gonna do is swing over
to the hello world code and we're gonna
add a code to goodbye world dot main.
And what I'm gonna do just to save
a bit of time, is just paste in some code
and just overwrite that.
Then that, at the moment the compiler is not satisfied.
It says it's an unused import.
But notice when I click over here to import
I can add dependency on module MySecondModule
and depending on how you've set things up,
you might find you get a different message,
you might get something, words to the effect
that mod two is declared in an unnamed module.
The point though is at the moment,
before I actually click on this add dependency,
what we haven't done for MySecondModule
is add that all important module dash info file.
So what I'm gonna do is do that first.
Can we go back to the source folder
for the MySecondModule, right click, New.
I'm gonna select module dash info dot java again
to create that file that's needed for all modules.
Then I'm gonna go back to the hello world again,
HelloWorld.java and now I'm gonna click on
add dependency on module MySecondModule.
If we go back to have a look at what's happened there,
specifically, if we have a look at in our first class
our module info dot java, nothing in there yet.
We go back to our second one, closed down the out file,
remember, to save a bit of space.
At the moment they're empty but if we go back to
hello world there now, notice we've got
a different message there, package mod2
is declared in module, MySecondModule,
which does not export to module, MyFirstModule.
So what we're gonna do is add the option here
to add exports mod2 directive to module info dot java.
And we've still got an error here.
We'll go back and have a look at that error again there now.
Package mod2 is declared in module MySecondModule
but module MyFirstModule doesn't read it.
And again we're gonna have a quick look at these files.
MySecondModule has now got an exports mod2 in it
but my first module, module info dot java
is still empty so we go back here,
look at that error again, we're gonna add
the requires MySecondModule directive
to module dash info dot java and now
finally the errors have disappeared
and go back to the module dash info dot java for
MyFirstModule, it's still got a requires MySecondModule
and our module dash info dot java file
for MySecondModule has got the exports mod2.
So basically at this point, going back to hello world,
IntelliJ has figured out the dependencies
and adjusted our module dash info
java files accordingly, specifying which package
needs to be exported in MySecondModule
and which module is required by
MyFirstModule and you saw those files.
So if we go ahead now, rebuild,
the project, which we'll do here.
We'll have a look in that out folder again now,
notice that we've actually got two folders there now,
MyFirstModule and MySecondModule
and they've both got the appropriate subfolders.
They've got a package name and also,
have the module info class file for each.
All right, so let's open a terminal window again.
So we're gonna re-jar the jar files we did before.
You can see that MyFirstModule's still
showing there in the project bank.
The command for that jar space,
dash dash create, dash dash file,
MyFirstModule dot jar, specify our main class,
dash dash main dash class, still the same as last time
modular dot HelloWorld then we need
to specify the output, dash C, out,
backslash production, backslash MyFirstModule
backslash and a dot, so that's that file created.
Next thing we need to do is jar the second module
'cause that's, obviously that's new in this video.
So let's type the command, jar space
dash dash create dash dash file again.
This time we're creating it in the
module testing dot out folder so that's out
backslash MySecondModule dot jar
and dash C out backslash production backslash
we're specifying the path which in this case
is obviously gonna be MySecondModule,
I can just do a tab there, backslash and dot.
So I get two things to that.
And I'll just press enter there to create that.
The jar is created in the module testing slash out folder
and we want the modules to be in different
directories for demonstration purposes
in case you're wondering but also in that,
we didn't create a main class in this jar file.
And if you go back to that folder now in IntelliJ,
you can see that MySecondModule dot jar has appeared.
All right so let's now use that dry option
that we saw in the slides to actually
test dependencies before you attempt to run the code.
So we can do that with java space dash dash dry
dash run space dash p dot and dash m MyFirstModule.
All right so you can see we've got a problem here
and the problem here relates to
finding MySecondModule, you can see
module MySecondModule is not found.
And obviously we changed the module path
to put MySecondModule elsewhere, so what we need
to do is basically indicate where that is.
So I'm gonna do a java space dash dash dry
dash run dash p dot then semicolon out this time
to include the out directory relative to module testing
which of course is where the MySecondModule
dot jar file has been created.
Then we do a dash m MyFirstModule.
No news is good news, that means that
there's no errors on the dry run
so let's actually try a proper run now.
Java space dash p dot semicolon out dash m MyFirstModule.
And success, we can see the output
is showing Hello new modular world
and the new code from our goodbye world class,
And that's a wrap - goodbye.
Now you could've run this from IntelliJ
but the exam does expect you to know
how to run modules with dependencies
on other modules in other parts
so you now know how to do that.
Now let's have a quick look at
jdeps before we finish the video.
I'm gonna type jdeps MyFirstModule dot jar
and we've done this previously.
And you can see at the moment,
I'll just scroll up, give you more space here.
We've actually got an error here.
MySecondModule's not found, required by MyFirstModule.
So in this scenario we need to include that
so we go back up here, jdeps, we're going to
add an argument dash p dot semicolon out,
MyFirstModule dot jar, scrolling up.
We've still got the same error,
module MySecondModule not found, required by MyFirstModule.
Third time lucky, let's press hop over again.
And we need to specify module path so,
at the start jdeps will now be jdeps dash dash module
path dot semicolon out MyFirstModule dot jar.
And you can see this time we've got the right result.
And you can see it's specifying MyFirstModule
and we can see also mod2 in MySecondModule
showing up there and just as an alternative,
you could also use this command.
I could've put a dash m there and not used dot jar
to achieve the same result, as you can see.
So basically that time I didn't specify the jar file
I just passed up the module name.
So it's important to remember that for jdeps,
unlike the other tools dash p is not the same
as dash dash module path, very important there.
Let's do a couple more commands
'cause I know this video is getting quite long.
All right I'll start posting these
in just a set a bit of time.
This command here is for an easier view,
easy little dash dash list dash deps.
All right as an alternative to that,
dash m without the dot jar gives us the same thing.
And we can use the check as well, dash dash check.
Which gives us some useful information as well.
So in this video and the previous video
I've shown you how to build and execute
a module in IntelliJ, how to jar
the module, executing both jarred module
and the exploded directory from the command line.
And we have gone in and we worked through
multiple examples of using the tools
to get information about modules.
And also I gave you a brief sample
of how to create modules that work together.
So moving forward now, in the next video I'm gonna
be talking more about the module declaration
and the directives used with it.
See you in the next video.